# 🌐 CMS-SERVER-ARTICLES

CMS-SERVER-ARTICLES is a microservice that is part of a larger Content Management System (CMS). It is specifically designed to manage articles for applications. The goal of this service is to centralize and simplify the article management process within the CMS.

## 📚 Table of Contents

- [General Information](#-general-information)
- [Technologies Used](#-technologies-used)
- [Features](#-features)
- [Setup](#-setup)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [Tests](#-tests)

## 📝 General Information

This service is built using Flask, a lightweight web application framework, and SQLAlchemy, a SQL toolkit and Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) system for Python. Flask-Executor, a library for asynchronous task execution, is used for managing background tasks related to articles. Docker is used to develop, ship, and run the application inside containers, ensuring consistent behavior across different environments.

## 💻 Technologies Used

- **Flask**: A lightweight web application framework used for handling API requests.
- **Flask-RESTful**: An extension for Flask that adds support for quickly building REST APIs.
- **Flask-SQLAlchemy**: An extension for Flask that adds support for SQLAlchemy to your application.
- **Boto3**: The Amazon Web Services (AWS) SDK for Python, used for integrating the application with AWS services.
- **Confluent-Kafka**: A Python client for the Apache Kafka distributed stream processing system, likely used for handling real-time data feeds.
- **Flask-Executor**: An extension that adds support for the concurrent.futures API to Flask.

## 🌟 Features

- **Article Management**: Centralize and simplify the process of managing articles within your application.
- **REST API**: The service exposes a REST API for managing articles. This allows for easy integration with other services or front-end applications.
- **Kafka Integration**: With the use of Confluent-Kafka, the service can handle real-time data feeds, making it suitable for applications that require real-time updates or analytics.
- **Database Operations**: SQLAlchemy provides a full suite of well-organized ORM operations for efficient database management.
- **AWS Integration**: Utilize Boto3 for integrating with AWS services.

## 🚀 Setup

The project dependencies are listed in the Pipfile.lock file located in the root directory of the project. This file is generated by Pipenv and ensures that the project's dependencies are locked to specific versions for reliable and repeatable builds.

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/WojciechKubak/CMS-SERVER-ARTICLES
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory**:

   ```bash
   cd articles
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**:

   ```bash
   pipenv install
   ```

4. **Start the Docker containers**:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

5. **Enter the Docker container**:

   ```bash
   docker exec -it <container_id> bash
   ```

6. **Make migrations**

   ```bash
   pipenv run flask --app main.py db upgrade
   ```

The application should now be running at localhost:8002.

## 🛠️ Usage

The service exposes a REST API for managing articles. A Postman collection is provided in the repository which contains examples of all the API endpoints.

## 🧪 Tests

This project uses pytest for testing. Test coverage is provided by the coverage library, and factory-boy is used for creating test data. flake8 is used for linting to ensure code quality.

Run the tests:

```bash
pipenv run pytest
```

Generate a coverage report:

```bash
pipenv run coverage run -m pytest
pipenv run coverage report
```

Check code quality with flake8:

```bash
pipenv run flake8
```
