# 🌐 CMS-SERVER-TRANSLATIONS

CMS-SERVER-TRANSLATIONS is a microservice that is part of a larger Content Management System (CMS). It is specifically designed to manage translations for multilingual applications. The goal of this service is to centralize and simplify the translation process within the CMS.

## 📚 Table of Contents

- [General Information](#-general-information)
- [Technologies Used](#-technologies-used)
- [Features](#-features)
- [Setup](#-setup)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [Tests](#-tests)

## 📝 General Information

This service is built using Flask, a lightweight web application framework, and SQLAlchemy, a SQL toolkit and Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) system for Python. Kafka, a distributed streaming platform, is used for building real-time data pipelines and streaming apps, providing asynchronous messaging. Docker is used to develop, ship, and run the application inside containers, ensuring consistent behavior across different environments.

## 💻 Technologies Used

- **Flask**: A lightweight web application framework used for handling API requests.
- **SQLAlchemy**: A SQL toolkit and Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) system for Python, used for managing the database operations.
- **Kafka**: A distributed streaming platform used for building real-time data pipelines and streaming apps. It is used here for asynchronous messaging.
- **Docker**: A platform used to develop, ship, and run applications inside containers. It ensures that the application runs the same way regardless of the environment.
- **Docker Compose**: A tool for defining and managing multi-container Docker applications. It's used here to manage the application's services.
- **Pipenv**: A packaging tool for Python that solves some common problems associated with the typical workflow using pip, virtualenv, and the good old requirements.txt.
- **Boto3**: The Amazon Web Services (AWS) SDK for Python, which allows Python developers to write software that makes use of services like Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and others.
- **Confluent-Kafka**: A Python client for the Apache Kafka distributed stream processing system. Confluent Python Kafka:- It is offered by Confluent, the developers of Kafka.
- **OpenAI**: Used for implementing AI models in the application.

## 🌟 Features

- **Translation Management**: Centralize and manage all your translations in one place.
- **Database Operations**: SQLAlchemy provides a full suite of well-organized ORM operations for efficient database management.
- **AI Integration**: Leverage OpenAI for implementing advanced AI models.
- **AWS Integration**: Utilize Boto3 for integrating with AWS services like S3 and EC2.
- **Dependency Management**: Pipenv ensures reliable and repeatable builds by locking the project's dependencies.

## 🚀 Setup

The project dependencies are listed in the Pipfile.lock file located in the root directory of the project. This file is generated by Pipenv and ensures that the project's dependencies are locked to specific versions for reliable and repeatable builds.

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/WojciechKubak/CMS-SERVER-TRANSLATIONS
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory**:

   ```bash
   cd translations-service
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**:

   ```bash
   pipenv install
   ```

4. **Start the Docker containers**:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```

5. **Enter the Docker container**:

   ```bash
   docker exec -it <container_id> bash
   ```

6. **Make migrations**

   ```bash
   pipenv run flask --app main.py db upgrade
   ```

The application should now be running at localhost:8003.
Please replace the placeholders with the actual values (like your username, repository name, etc.).

## 🛠️ Usage

Once the application is up and running, you can interact with it through its API endpoints. A Postman collection is provided in the repository which contains examples of all the API endpoints.

## 🧪 Tests

This project uses pytest for testing. Test coverage is provided by the coverage library, and factory-boy is used for creating test data. flake8 is used for linting to ensure code quality.

Run the tests:

```bash
pipenv run pytest
```

Generate a coverage report:

```bash
pipenv run coverage run -m pytest
pipenv run coverage report
```

Check code quality with flake8:

```bash
pipenv run flake8
```
